"Reset your life in 30 days", "The art of reinventing yourself", "The power of manifestation" and "how to get out of a slump". These are all article titles that you must have browsed through at one time or the other. And the act of reading, of searching for answers on how to reinvent yourself, on how to not feel lazy and underwhelmed all the time, comes from a sort of inner awareness, the idea of telling yourself that something needs to change.

However, we quickly jump to the finding solutions part before we actually pick on that awareness and probe into it. The thing is, a proper introspection is the first step of the process. And I know that you are tired of abstract guides that don't give you actionable steps. Thus, I ask you to write. To get it all out on paper, or your notes app. A simple brain dump. Then take that piece and read it. It might make you wince, but do it. Then at the end of your entry, summarise your inner goings-on into 4 or 5 sentences. Note down what you feel from an external perspective and write in third person, so you can see the bigger picture of your inner chaos. This can give you some much needed clarity.

Now, once that is done, we need to look forward. Figure out 2-3 things you wish to focus on for the near future. Those habits or goals can give you an outline of how you want your lifestyle to look like. Next, jot down the antithesis for all your targets or intentions, which is your anti-vision list. This step is extremely crucial, because the image of you in a few months, trapped in a burntout, monotonous, unhealthy rut, can cough up some strong motivation.

It is also significant to understand that we are multifaceted, chaotic beings. Without new exposure, ideas, discomforts and rabbit holes, we might decay into the mud. So, when you try to change your life all at once, please account for your complexity as well. Don't juggle too many things at once, and work from the foundational issues first. If you feel underwhelmed intellectually, don't start reading 500-page classics the next day. Start by consuming less, by switching off the doomscroll. Then work towards 3-minute articles or essays, and from there you can build up.

Whenever you need a reinvention, and you don't have a clear idea of what to actually do, one rule of thumb is to go for creativity. It could be a hobby you've never tried, or something you dropped out of with time. Revive yourself through writing, painting, cooking, noticing. Not like swallowing bitter medicine though, engage in something that gives you a flow. Have at least 15 minutes in a day where you're creating, where you're releasing energy, instead of the relentless consumption that's clogging our brains.

Another little thing you can do is a daily intention. This can work alongside your brain-dumps. So, every night, set a specific, actionable, intention for the next day. For example, you could decide to talk to new people, to have no sugar, to notice the nature around you or to simply pay attention in a class in which you usually snooze. These are easy to start with and they give you a sense of satisfaction. Additionally, this practice teaches your mind the habit of setting a goal and following through.

Furthermore, all your intentions must be tied to identities. We're all obsessed with who we are, so associate yourself with different identities that align well with your ideal self. If you want to run more, you can describe yourselves as a runner. You can identify as someone who does not doomscroll, as a health-focused person, or an avid reader. This method can help you build the confidence to build on your habits and it can make them seem easier and more natural. Once I tag myself as a writer, sitting down for a 1000-word essay seems more natural, more me. Hence label yourself with identities instead of only thinking of a habit or hobby.

Finally, there are some classics that you can never go wrong with, because most slumps come from emotional mayhem. So go outside every now and then, don't get dehydrated and have quality time whether it's with others or in your own company. Mix up your routine every now and then, and take pride in all the little milestones. Have fun redesigning your personality and curating a new identity. Because to live, is to start over.
